-: Welcome back.
Just now we have completed our code build introduction
and then we are moving on with our step eight
related build spec dot YAML
and then environmental variables in our code build, right?
So environmental variables required
for our code build are going to be the repository URI
so which is nothing, but if we go to our ECR
which is elastic container registry, right?
So whatever the repository we have created EKS DevOps
Ingenix right? So it's equivalent URI
whatever is present here right?
So this is the one we need to pass as repository
URI variable.
So, when we are creating the code build project
so we'll see that later, but these things are,
we need to make a note.
So, and one more is EKS cube CTL role ERL.
So when you execute at this step, right?
So in step six create SDS, assume IAM role.
So whenever we created this role
so we got the
AR and value, right?
So this is the AR and value.
So here just if you replace your account ID
and then if you don't change any of the other templates
just replace your account ID and
then use that. Okay?
So if you want you can take this and
then go to IAM, right?
To go to IAM service here.
So this is the one, right?
So go to roles and then search for this role, right?
And open this role and
then you'll find that here and here.
So get that and then ensure that you put it here
as a note for you and your EKS cluster name.
So our EKS cluster name is EKS demo one.
So we are going to use that.
So these are the information you need to make a note
before moving onto the next steps.
So now we are going to review the entire build spec file.
Very big file we have written.
When you see it, it looks super big but it is
super simple so I'm going to make it
super simple for you. So let's go there.
Okay, so in 11 DevOps in application manifests.
So you can find something called build speck dot YAML,
right?
So I can make it a little bit bigger for our convenience.
So right, So now if you see in version we have version 0.1
and then 0.2 in build spec dot YAML.
So if you try to Google it here, right?
So, AWS code build, Build spec, right?
So it'll take us to the specification document here, okay?
Specification reference, we can say even, right?
So it'll have the entire reference.
So version 0.2
and all the information related to it.
Okay? So, but from this, whatever is required
we have taken, okay, so our thing is install.
We have phases like install, pre-build
build and then post build and then artifacts
okay? Build, post build and then artifacts.
So inside that, before starting the pre-build process
if anything you want to install you can define the
inside the install.
This is a simple YAML file and inside commands
whatever things you want to install you can give.
So earlier when we don't have this latest docker
images available, which is provided by AWS for code build.
So what happened is
like we need to install lots of stuff, okay?
Example, if you're dealing with Cuban notice
you need to install your cube CTL
you need to install your EKS CTL
you need to install equal and, AWS cli, all those things.
But for now
since AWS Amazon related docker images are available
for code build with the latest versions.
So what happens is nothing is required to be installed here.
So what does that mean?
Let's go to the end of this file.
There will be a URL for you for reference.
Okay? So what we are going to do is let's take this, right?
So I'll go and then
once I'll say first I'll say AWS code build docker images
right? So let's search that.
Okay? So by code build, so these
these are the docker images we have.
So the latest currently is 3.0
and but whatever latest you want you can verify.
So this link, whatever here present is the same
link I have provided here for reference.
Okay? So if I click on this, okay, so it opens this file
and inside the, if you open the docker file, right?
So what all packages it is going to install
as part of this respective code build image
we can find it here, right?
So it is using Amazon Linux two
as a core and then it is installing lots
of stuff SSH and then G I P M install lots of packages.
It is installing open ssl, right?
So SSH key scan and lot of things.
But what is in important for us it is installing it.
It is installing Firefox, okay?
GCO driver, chromium, chromium driver.
So like this.
But our important thing here is AWS tools, right?
So it is going to install AWS
IM authenticator and it is going to use the latest
current one dot 16 dot eight related AWS means like our
Kubernetes version related stuff only you can see, right?
It is going to install the cube CTL and version is going to
be 1.16.8.
So our latest cube CTL.
So whenever you are doing this and then at that time 1.17
or 1.18 or whatever the cluster you are
using just crosscheck whatever you are using the
equivalent cube CTL from this code build docker image.
So like this you can check, right?
So you can go here.
So you can say code, build docker images and then Google it
and then take the latest image, right?
Whatever we are using here is 3.0 and whatever you want to
use at at that point of time should match your stuff, right?
So 3.0 and then if you go inside the docker file
you'll find something called AWS tools here.
Okay? So AWS tools.
So it is installing IM authenticator cube CTL E C S C L A
which I am not interested.
It is installing EKS CTL also.
Okay? So all these things it is installing and
in by default it also will install the AWS CLI version also
which is one dot 17 or something
in our course we are using means like
in this course most of the time whenever
we use AWS commands we are using AWS version to latest here.
But in Amazon related code build images
I still didn't get this level of image already built here
but it is not impacting us anyway so that's fine.
So even CLI 1.17 or one dot 18 related to AWS
we really don't have any issue
for us Cube CTL version one dot 16 should work
for our cluster one dot 16.
So that means like we have the EKS latest cluster
and also cube CTL also the equivalent version.
So we really don't need to worry.
So this is about the core thing related
to nothing related to be installed as part of commands
because cube CTL don't need to be installed because
it is there IM authenticator don't need to be installed.
It is there AWS CLI it is there.
We really don't need to install.
So that's the reason nothing is present in this area.
But let's move on to the pre-buid area.
We have some stuff to do inside the commands.
So one is the docker tag
which is nothing but our image tag.
We are going to tag with the date within this format
year, month, date, hour, minutes and then seconds.
And in addition to that dot we are also going
to have a environmental variable named code builder.
Resolved source version will be there in code build.
So inside that we are going to use first eight
characters we are going to use for that source code thing.
Okay? So we are going to see when the docker image
is built and in addition to that next thing is
update image tag in our Cuba that is manifest.
So this is the important one.
So we are going to use the set command to
replace whatever is the repository.
URL column tag.
So this repository URL, you are sending
via environmental variables and then tag you have here.
So the whole information as part of this, right?
So tag whatever is generated now
with this current time and then date
with this code build resolve source version, right?
You are going to update the same thing in
your kubernetes DevOps engineers deployment manifest here.
So it is going to replace container image with that value
right? So that's what you are going to do it in
your cube manifest 01 DevOps engineerix deployment dot yaml.
So this completes these lines.
So we are also going to verify the AWS version, right?
And next thing is whenever you want to do a docker push
to your repository, ECR repository
you need to do it ECR get login.
Since you are using the one dot means like one.x version
of your AWS CLI, you need to use this command. Okay?
So but if you see in our section related to ECR right?
So here, whatever we have done.
So here we have used, our local is version two AWS
version is 2.0.22 something related to 2.x.
So that's the reason whenever you are doing the docker push
right? So create and then push, right?
So before push, so where is that?
We have done somewhere here the docker repository
docker image locally and then push docker image you
can see AWS ECR get login password and then region pipe two
docker login with username and then password S trillion.
So this format you are going to use
for your AWS CLI two, but the current build image
whatever AWS is providing, right?
In this respect to is AWS CLI version one.
So that's the reason it's like
with this respect to docker image
it is providing CLI version one.
So we are using this AWS, ECR get log in CLI version
one related get log in command we are using.
So with this you will be log in to your Amazon easier
and then you are just
exporting your cube config home directory here.
Nothing more than that, okay?
And then next what you'll do is in the build
phase you'll do that docker build, right?
So docker build and in the current location
itself you have that docker file here
which means like in your code repository
in the master location itself means like on the
root location itself
you have the docker file here and then you're
going to tag with repository you are a whatever
you have provided in environmental variables
and the tag whatever you have generated here.
So in that way you're going to build the image
and in the post build commands
you are going to push that image, right?
So you're going to push that image, docker, push repository
URI and then talk already you have logged into your ECR.
So immediately push will happen.
So once it is happened, it'll say docker image
push to ECR completed successfully.
So the next thing is to cube CTL
apply hyphen F and then cube manifests, right?
So it means like once you, you push through the image
that image need to be deployed
to your EKS cluster in post bill.
So to do that you need to first assume your role as EKS cube
CTL roll ARL and whatever we have created
EKS means like EKS cube, CTL role
whatever we have created here, right in our previous step.
So the same role we are going to use means
like this is the role we are going to use.
Where is this?
Okay? So we need to assume this respective role
EKS code built cube CTL role.
So let's come back here.
So assume
that role that will generate some credential information.
So from that credential information you'll get
the access key id, secret access
key session token, and then expiration.
So once all these are available and then once
these environmental variables are set
so you can use a command called AWS EKS update
cube config with your cluster name here.
So that's the reason cluster name.
Also you are sending it as a environmental variable.
So whenever you run this command automatically
your cube CTL is setup there to connect with
your respective cluster.
That's all.
So now once this is done, you can go ahead and
then apply the changes and the changes will get reflected.
In addition to that, you can even generate your
respective DevOps means like respect to image
URI information adjacent file and then
export it into build dot Jason and then create
a artifact file build dot jason.
And also you can generate all your expo
all your cube manifest, whatever the files are there, right?
So zero one DevOps, zero two
DevOps related notebook service and zero three ingress.
Also, you can make it as output artifacts because in future
if you want to extend this and use some other tool too
like Lambda or something to create
and then increase your pipeline stages.
So this build dot Jason and then cube manifests
whatever created here will help you in exploring
and then adding your pipeline to the next level.
So for that purpose, and
once this is generated also you can download these artifacts
from S3 and then see
that inside this zero one engineerix deployment
if this container image is replaced with that new ECR image.
So all those things we can check.
So in our, in our next lecture as part of our checks also
we are going to anyway do that.
So this is about the overall build spec
whatever we have written and these
whatever I have commented here, these are
like for your additional information means
like as part of this SDS assume role
what it is getting and then storing in credentials
you can print in your build log and then verify.
So you can uncomment this, this, this, this, this this.
And then see what is present in credentials
what is present in access, key id
secret access session token, all these things you can see.
So this is about the overall build speck dot AML
big build spec.aml
which looks very simple when we understand it so about it.
So in our next lecture we'll move on with the next steps.
So I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.